The Heston model (1993) is used in the market of financial instruments whose value depends on another asset. Such as: Stock market, Foreign Exchange market, Bond Market.  The initial need for the Heston model arose from the shortcomings of the Black-Scholes model (1973).  Although the Black-Scholes formula is quite successful in explaining stock option prices, there are errors in it. In the research of [Melino and Turnbull (1990, 1991), Knoch (1992)]a significant decrease in efficiency is noticeable when using options on foreign currency. This decrease in efficiency is fully explained by the fact that the model assumes that stock returns are usually distributed by a known average and variance. Also, the formula does not matter whether the market is growing or not, so changing the average growth will not solve the problem. Scott (1987), Hull and White (1987), and Wiggins (1987) generalized the model to account for stochastic volatility. Melino and Turnbull (1990, 1991) report that this approach is successful at explaining the prices of currency options. But there was no single formula, and calculations required computers and complex mathematical operations. Other studies do not consider price and volatility to be related at all. In the Jarrow study and Eisenberg (1991) and Stein and Stein (1991) average many scenarios using the Black-Scholes model. But this method does not explain the asymmetry of the market. Heston provided a model that is not based on the Black-Scholes model and that solves many previously voiced problems at once. First, the Heston model takes into account the relationship between spot asset returns and volatility. It can also be applied to options on bonds and foreign currencies. It also solves a problem that arose in the work of Scott (1987), Hull and White (1987) and Wiggins (1987) has a closed solution, that is, a ready-made formula in which the values can be substituted.
